# Contributing

_CONTRIBUTING file template from [here](https://github.com/TTUSDC/cpceed-student-app/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)_

This CONTRIBUTING file is for the migration, not the current state of the app

To get involved with this project, you'll need to do a few things.

## Before You Start

- We will be using Node 8.12 as our development environment

- Some knowledge needed to start

  - **React**
  - **Redux** and react-redux
    - Connect to Redux state using `connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)` in a container component
  - The higher-order components (HOC) design pattern
    - A lot of validation will be handled by HOC's
  - connected-redux-router
    - We like to keep everything as a function of state in React
  - CRA 1
    - Bootstraped with CRA
  - PropTypes
    - Used instead of Flow due to linting and familiarity reasons
  - Axios/the request.js connection builder
    - **Use JWT for authenticated requests**
    - This is our main http library for making api calls
    - Connection builder can be found in `src/utils`
  - Async Patterns
    - Promises
    - Async/Await
    - Callbacks
    - Event Driven
  - Express
    - Backend framework for NodeJS
  - Passport
    - Authorization library
    - Handles OAuth2
    - **Use JWT for authenticated requests**
  - Firebase
    - Will be using serverless functions in the future for database/Google Contacts management
    - Google's Contact and Calendar API are used extensively
  - **Jest**
    - PR will not be accepted if tests are not written correctly
    - Basic understanding of what eslint is
    - firebase unit testing. More information can be found [here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/unit-testing)
    - Chai/Sinon
    - Bonus: how to effectively use `mockgoose` for testing

## Making Changes

<!-- Visit our [OnBoarding Wiki](https://github.com/TTUSDC/ttuacm-backend/wiki/OnBoarding) -->

#### Testing Your Changes

- **Unless all of the tests and linting pass, admins will block your code from being merged**
- We do not expect 100% test coverage, we expect 100% practical test coverage. Becuase 100% test coverage will not be enforced, we expect the tests to be strong in the sense that it mimics what an actual user would do.
- Tips for testing...
  - Do not test code that is not yours
  - Abstract Error messages for easier error checking
  - Your tests should reflect how the app is used
  - Follow the AAA method - [Arrange, Act, Assert](https://medium.com/@pjbgf/title-testing-code-ocd-and-the-aaa-pattern-df453975ab80)

#### Client

Once you've started making changes, you'll need to make sure the app still runs properly.
To run the development server for React...

1. Run `npm install` to install dependencies
2. Run `npm run env-config:client` from the project directory to set up the default environement variables (the only one you really need is `NODE_PATH`)
3. Run `npm run serve:client` from the project directory.
4. Enter `http://localhost:3000` into the URL bar of your browser to see the app.

Our UI will be in the form of Adobe XD files and should be followed as much as possible. **Mock up available [here](https://github.com/TTUSDC/TTUACM-MockUps)**

You should also run the unit tests to ensure the code is still functioning properly.
To run the unit tests, do the following:

1. Run `npm run test:client` from the project directory.

As you're writing application code, you should also be writing unit tests that can be used to ensure your code doesn't get broken during refactors.

- Unit tests go next to their components with the following naming convention `foo.spec.jsx`

- We are using React 16.7-alpha which means we can use the Hooks API.

#### Coding Standards for JSX

We use [Airbnb's](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) JavaScript style guide

Notable Aspects:

- Indents should be 2 spaces.
- Files that contain pages should use PascalCase
- React components should use `PascalCase` for the class name, the file name, and the parent folder name.
- Testing files must be in the same directory as the file being tested
- We practice the [Container/Presenter](https://medium.com/@dan_abramov/smart-and-dumb-components-7ca2f9a7c7d0) pattern or the "Smart/Dumb" component pattern
- We practice the use of JSS over CSS/Sass/Less
- camelCase for non-global constants
- CAPS for global constants
- Files must be named accordingly
  - Components - `Foo.jsx`
  - Tests - `Foo.spec.jsx`
  - Higher Order Components - `Foo.util.jsx`

#### API

Once you've started making changes, you'll need to make sure the app still runs properly.
To run a development instance...

1. [Set up a firebase account](https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/)
2. Add a new Project and name it whatever you like
3. Install the CLI using `npm install -g firebase-tools`
4. Run `firebase login` and pick a your project
5. Install dependencies. Run `npm install`
6. Run `npm run serve:api` from the project directory.
7. Enter the link given by the CLI to see API

You should also run the unit tests to ensure the code is still functioning properly.
To run the unit tests, do the following:

1. Run `npm run test:unit` from the project directory.

As you're writing application code, you should also be writing unit tests that can be used to ensure your code doesn't get broken.

- Unit tests go next to their components with the following naming convention `foo.spec.js`

#### Coding Standards for NodeJS

We use [Airbnb's](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) JavaScript style guide

Notable Aspects:

- Indents should be 2 spaces.
- Directories should use `dash-separated-names`. Short folder names are preferred.
- Files must be named accordingly
  - Controllers/Managers - `foo.controller.js`
  - Error Messages - `foo.errors.js`
  - Models - `foo.model.js`
  - Routes - `foo.routes.js`
  - Tests - `foo.spec.js`
  - Utility - `foo-bar.js`

#### Testing Technologies

1. Jest (**required**): a test framework.
2. Chai (optional): for making assertions about tests.
3. Sinon (**highly recommended**): for spying on, stubbing, or mocking functions.
4. supertest (**highly recommended**): Used for integration/Acceptance testing
5. react-testing-library (**highly recommended**): Used for testing React

#### Linting

The best way to ensure there are no stylistic problems with your code is to use ESLint:

1. Make changes to a file.
2. Save the file.
3. Run the command `npm run lint`.

- Use 2 spaces for all tabs
- 1st curly bracket should be on the same line
- camelCase for non-global constants
- CAPS for global constants

###### Advanced/Infrastructure

- Please contact acmtexastech@gmail.com for more information about working on infrastructure
- We are proud users of...
  - Travis CI
  - Google's Firebase Suite
  - Mongo Atlas
